---
layout: post

title: "Shadow Reviews: Project Wingman"

date: 2021-02-20 12:00:00 -0500

categories: jekyll update
---

## I See No Kings

<br>

Blah blah, should you play it? Yes, yes you should. If you have any amount of interest in Ace Combat games or other flight-arcade-action games, then you should stop reading this shitty review, go buy this for $25 or whatever, play it, and then come back and read the shitty review. I think the campaign is something that, if you think you might play this game, you should experience it unspoiled first. You can read the overview part if you want. I don't actually start talking about the game for another 700 words or so. Whatever. I'm a sign, not a cop. Do whatever you want.

Also, this review was written over the course of, like, a month. It really got away from me. It's kind of all over the place. What a mess. What a dogshit reviewer.

# Overview

Project Wingman is the product of a development team consisting of a whopping person as a spiritual successor to the Ace Combat series. A demo was released in early 2018 which was highly successful in garnering attention from the Ace Combat fanbase, which at the time was still eagerly awaiting the release of Ace Combat 7, which was trapped somewhere in development hell at the time.

Shortly afterwards, on May 29th, 2018, the Kickstarter for Project Wingman went live. In a month, the game managed to just narrowly make it's Kickstarter goal, raising AU$ 114,544 with an original goal of AU$ 35,000. Ya' see, kids, that's what they call humor. You say "narrowly" but then you present two values that are not remotely close together at all.

Needless to say, there was interest in the game. A new demo was released in June of 2018 with one new mission-teaser (Operation), and including a sneak peak at "Conquest" mode, an add-on to the game besides the campaign mode that would function like a rouge-lite where players would conquer a series of territories, using money gained from each mission to purchase wingman and airships for their fleet to make the subsequent territories easier, as well as using prestige to unlock planes, which would persist over multiple sessions.

And then, when we needed it most, Project Wingman vanished. A new minor version of the demo was released in September 2018, containing a few critical bugfixes. Ace Combat 7: Skies Unknown was released on January 18th, 2019 while development on Project Wingman continued in relative silence, with a few screenshots or a Kickstarter update every two to three months or so. This left some of the biggest brains on the YouTube comments section to wonder, now that we already had Ace Combat 7, why did we even need Project Wingman anymore?

Throughout 2019, the news drought intensified, with some growing agitated, culminating in a rather infamous incident where one disgruntled Discord-goer was able to gather sources "inside the development team" who told them that development on the game was not progressing and that the game had more or less be canceled. The developer, write/community manager, and music guy all looked at each other in confusion, wondering what the hell they were talking about, and also trying to figure out which one was the rat.

Between 12/4/2019 and 6/13/2020, there were no official updates, marking the darkest hour of Project Wingman. It was more than an hour, though, it was over six months. That's a lot of hours. In June, at the PC Gaming Show COVID Edition, a trailer was released for Project Wingman which promised a release in Summer of 2020.

Then, we arrived at that fateful day. The day when everything changed. August 28, 2020. The Gamescom 2020 trailer. Somewhere between dozens and millions of people in the Project Wingman Discord eagerly awaiting the trailer that had been announced in advanced. 3 pm Central. We all watched with baited breath, hoping and dreading the announcement of a release date.

"Coming Early 2021".

The Discord erupted, with many expressing their grief in the only way they knew how. ":mfw:". All the memes about "Still on track for a 2019 release!", "Maybe he was talking about Australian summer...?", and more, suddenly felt like bitter reminders of that which would never be. In that terrible moment, we knew, Ceno was right all along. There was no game. Project Wingman never existed in the first place, it was all just one giant mass hallucination that we were all trapped inside, with some guy who had managed to steal all of our money.

Anyway, then the game came out on December 4 2020 and everybody lived happily ever after.

Until they didn't.

<br>

# Campaign

<br>

## Story

Project Wingman takes place on Earth, around 580-600 years after the apocalypse. The apocalypse, also known as the Calamity, was a series of tectonic events and earthquakes so powerful, they literally ripped the Earth as we knew it apart. This all culminated in the eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano, and the eruption of the entire Ring of Fire. The frequency and intensity of these eruptions was so great that afterward, the Earth entered a 150 volcanic winter known as the Long Cold, during which millions of the survivors of the Calamity would starve as the ecosphere was devastated. Those who survived were forced to take refuge around geothermal fissures for heat and to attempt to grow crops.

After global contact was re-established and it was determined that the age of Calamity had passed, and that humanity had endured and would continue to develop and prosper, a year zero was set, marking the beginning of the age known as the "After Calamity Era." Luckily, they didn't miss a beat. Countries were formed, with power derived from a nation's access to geothermal fissures, and eventually to Cordium. Cordium is a valuable and extremely volatile energy source that was discovered following the Calamity, which is mined in and around geothermal fissures.

The story begins with the Sicario Mercenary Corps, at the end of a contract with the Creole Republic, being deployed to retake a Federation cargo ship that was hijacked in the Caribbean by mercenary-pirates. It is alleged that someone attempted to negotiate with said mercenary-pirates, and either they didn't actually try, tried and failed, or got bored, so they instead send in Sicario to murder the absolute shit out of them from the skies. After dropping missiles on some PT boats, some beach-goers, a small island town, and a light house (in addition to a fortified military fort, I'm told), air superiority is achieved and Sicario's SOF group, Ronin, is sent in.

Ronin uses a rope to swing their way onto the ship with swords clutched between their teeth, which is pretty weird since they have guns and the ship was docked at port. Anyway, in the midst of Ronin's LARPing session, they determine that the 'cargo' is a very large amount of Cordium. The Federation contact orders the cargo destroyed, so Ronin runs back to their helicopter as Monarch shoots a missile at the ship, which basically explodes with the force of a small nuke. Oops.

Speaking on Monarch, let's meet the other members of Sicario. We have: Monarch, the player character and Hitman 1. Comic, the girl and Hitman 3. Dip, Dipshit, I mean Diplomat, who is Hitman 2. We also have Kaiser, AKA Assassin 1 who is the leader of the Sicario Mercenary Corps. Then there's AWACS Galaxy. There's also Gunsel squadron but they basically don't matter.

And that's enough self introductions for now.

Oh shit. I forgot about Prez. I forget Prez a lot since I don't fly many two-seaters. Prez, AKA President, is Monarch's WSO whenever the player picks a plane with two seats. Prez is everyone's favorite WSO Waifu who they protecc at all costs. This isn't some weird fan thing either, she actually has lines and says things. Prez is great. I would never, ever just completely forget she exists since there aren't any good two-seaters after the F-14.

And that's enough self introductions forever.

At the end of the first mission, a mercenary flight incoming that was supposed to provide support for the mercenary-pirates that you just murdered the shit out of tips Kaiser off to the fact that there's an ongoing civil war in Cascadia.

Cascadia is vassal state of the Federation, and the Federation is the nation that controls the entirety of the Ring of Fire, on both sides of the Pacific Ocean. They're the most powerful nation on post-apocalyptic Earth, because as mentioned previously, a nations relative abundance and proximity to geothermal fissures more or less determines how much power that nation has. Of course, controlling the entirety of the Ring of Fire, which is more or less where the Calamity originated, gives them a lot of access to a lot of geothermal fissures, which means a lot of Cordium for a lot of airships.

The next mission is a pretty bog-standard anti-air mission, with the entirety of Sicario air born and heading off northwest to Cascadia to rendezvous with their contact from the Cascadian Independence Force, the largest rebel group operating in Cascadia that is trying to fight off the Federation. The CIF has hired the services of the Sicario group in their ongoing struggle against said Federation. Federation air forces have been stationed around the borders in order to intercept and destroy any mercenary forces or other reinforcements that might be trying to cross into Cascadia. Naturally you punch right through them, including shooting down the first airship of the game that attempts to make the intercept.

Airships are basically if you took a missile cruiser or some other naval ship that would typically be found in a carrier group and put it in the sky. There's a few different variations, but all of them will have some kind of SAM, AA, and most of them also have CIWS capability. In universe, they are a highly feared weapon that is used to almost guarantee air superiority of a region, and given the number of them that the Federation has, it's a tough fight for the CIF. Hitman team, along with Sicario, makes it into Cascadia with little issue.

From here on out, it's kind of a standard Ace Combat story, at least for a while. Subsequent missions involve taking back an air base that Federation forces seized at the start of the war, which becomes the base of operation for all mercenary forces in the region during the conflict, then breaking a siege to help trapped Cascadian forces escape from what is probably the Sonoma Valley after they encircled by Federation forces.

Next, off to the Cascadian capital, Presidia, to establish air superiority to allow all IF forces to retreat. After this, the mercenaries are divided up and sent out to destroy Cordium mining and processing facilities in the Yellowstone Exclusion Zone, so named because of the abundance of geothermal fractures which make the region almost unlivable, as there are still instances of "geothermal flare-ups", which basically means angry red lightning from the sky. Next you break a blockade for the Cascadian coast guard who have... commandeered an advanced federation battleship, which is basically an entire battle group unto itself, called the Eminent Domain.

The next seven missions continue similarly, with various anti-air or anti-ground missions. The two standouts here would be mission 11, Cold War, for being probably the biggest air-to-air cluster-fuck in the genre, potentially matched only by Weapons of Mass Destruction from _Ace Combat 6: Fires of Liberation_. The other would be mission 12, Midnight Light, which involves bombing a bunch of oil platforms in the ocean which have been converted into research facilities, and culminates in fighting the first bullet-hell boss of the game, which fires absurd amounts of missiles and gunfire out in every direction. In this case, the experimental SP-34R, or Spear. Also known as "Project Wingman."

Yes, they name drop the title. You even get an achievement for it.

In mission 15, shit hits the fan. The mission, titled Consequence of Power, involves the Cascadian Independence Force attempting to take the port city of Prospero, to use as a staging ground for the final battle at Presidia. It starts off relatively benign, with the player and Hitman team securing air superiority as Wild Boar, the main land unit of the CIF, begins moving from their entrenched position on the hills over the city to take the city itself. Over the radio, there's some Federation individuals arguing, followed by a super secret sounding transmission culminating in "Blaze. God help us."

Then AWACS Galaxy has a freakout moment, ordering all units to take cover or to evacuate the AO as he orders his pilot to get them the hell out. Cruise missiles appear on radar by the dozen, Hitman attempts to intercept them, but it's impossible to stop them all. The ones that make it through rain down on the city and explode with the force of small thermonuclear weapons. The sky turns red as more and more of them rain down, Cordium in the atmosphere begins to react, and angry red lightning from the sky starts as dark clouds form overhead, as small particles that almost look like bits of burning paper start to float through the air.

The Calamity has returned.

Prospero is basically destroyed, and communications are almost impossible. Hitman team is able to reform on Galaxy and returns to Rowsdower AFB. Tectonic and geothermal activity within Cascadia spikes as a chain reaction with Cordium in the atmosphere has basically engulfed the entire region in a smaller, somewhat localized Calamity, all because the Federation decided that weaponizing basically the apocalypse was a good idea.

Rowsdower is destroyed, with everybody else missing, presumed dead. The pilot of Spear, Frost, returns with Master Goose squadron, the squad from mission one that tipped Sicario off to the ongoing civil war in the first place. Hitman shoots them all down and Assassin 1 decides to get back on the radio, ordering whatever is left of Sicario to withdraw from the region. The CIF's mercenary liaison, Stardust, stops Sicario, begging them to wait for just five minutes before they leave, and so begins the only cutscene in the game. We'll talk about development a bit later, but considering this game was made by basically one (or three) people, depending on how you count, they definitely didn't have the time, budget, or ability for an actual cutscene. Rather, it's some dialogue over a static shot of a plane resting in a destroyed hanger at Rowsdower AFB. It's not really clear what, but Stardust makes an offer that they can't refuse. It's pretty clear he offers Assassin 1 a shitload of money to go off into the Periphery (the area that contains much of the middle and eastern United States which has no geothermal fissures) to round up any mercenaries and pilots he can. He sets off, while AWACS Galaxy and the rest of the Sicario corps are to stay behind, find a place to operate temporarily, and wait for the fight to restart. Forces on both sides have been scattered by the Second Calamity.

Comic is 100% out, and it seems the rest of Hitman will leave. No amount of money can make them stay, seemingly. Stardust pops another briefcase and everyone goes either speechless or starts stuttering in disbelief. There's not really an indication of what was in the second case. If I had to guess, either an absolutely absurd, unfathomable amount of money, which is unlikely considering that it had to fit in a briefcase, or a new identity.

Part of the previous engagement with Frost was her namedropping Dip and Comic, who previously only went by their callsigns. After that, Comic starts freaking out about how they're both dead and the bounty hunting guild will be following them to the ends of the Earth. She raises this point with Stardust as he's attempting to persuade everyone to stay, and he promises that Cascadia will protect them, presumably all of Hitman team, and part of this might have been a new identity that they would be able to live with, and if they left they would almost certainly be killed by bounty hunters.

Hitman agrees to stay. Hitman and the rest of what remains of the CIF's air force move to an abandoned highway project that Dip's father, a politician, had basically smothered, leaving it unfinished. A tunnel along the highway becomes the new temporary base for Sicario as well as any other IF pilots that are recovered and are sent to join them. A month after the destruction of Prospero, the IF returns to use whatever is left as a staging ground for the attack on Presidia, as originally intended. This comes after a few small operations to mop up a few Federation strongholds that have yet to fully recover. In the middle of the battle, as the IF is "hopelessly" outnumbered (but for the fact that I'm an actual God and could have easily killed everyone myself), Kaiser returns with a plethora of mercenaries, freedom fighters, and anti-Federation proxy squadrons to reinforce Cascadia's Air Force. The Federation navy is decimated and a blockade is formed.

Within a few days, the call is made to march on Presidia. The battle is relatively mundane, with a mix of ground, air, and sea based targets. The Federation attempts to mount a defense, but between the sea battle that devastated the Federation naval presence in Cascadia, and a mercenary re-enactment of Pearl Harbor where they bombed Federation airships in port as they stopped to refuel on their way to Presidia, it is in vain.

Eventually, the call is made in the middle of the battle for the Federation forces to surrender, and move to the harbor for evacuation by sea. The war is over and a peace conference is to be held to draft a treaty formally recognizing the independence of the nation of Cascadia. Mercenary groups are ordered to hold over Presidia while everyone figures out what's going on. A few minutes of deliberation occurs. Suddenly, _everyone_ is spiked by enemy radar. Soft chuckling fills the radio. Mercenaries panic as they attempt to identify the source of the threat. Missiles rain down from the clouds. The entire screen goes white. It slowly fades back into a red landscape, with angry red lightning. Presidia has been reduced to rubble and flames.

<br>

## You're a slave to history. Even after Calamity, you fight against the only order that can guarantee the safety of your people. You, solely, are responsible for this.

<br>

Crimson 1 has returned. Crimson 1 is the leader of Crimson Squadron, the elite Federation Peacekeeper Squadron that is assigned to Cascadia, regarded to be one of, if not the top ace in the world. As it was stated at some point during the game, the Federation used Peacekeeper squadrons to basically lock down the air space in an area. Crimson, assigned to Cascadia, was sent in to basically assert complete air superiority over the entire continent, to allow the Federation ground forces to overwhelm the enemy.

Crimson Squadron appeared a few times, first during the operation to cripple Cordium refining in the Yellowstone Exclusion Zone, where they ultimately arrived too late to actually save the facilities, and Hitman team then escapes from the area. You can also engage Crimson Squadron who will pull back if you manage to almost destroy one. They appear again during Cold War, late yet again. After losing five planes, Crimson 1 orders the retreat and they withdraw. They appear one final time over Prospero as the IF moves back in after the Second Calamity, attempting to rout Hitman team and the IF, where the entirety of Crimson Squadron is shot down and killed, except for Crimson 1, who survives. He is able to return to the Federation, where he is able to procure the experimental PW-MK.1, basically a super overpowered plane. In the time since his Squadron was killed, and the fact that Monarch has been able to face Crimson Squadron and live to tell the tale multiple times, Crimson 1 basically goes insane and turns into a yandere, who will stop at nothing to kill Monarch, including plunging the world into an even greater second apocalypse and wiping out the capital of his own country.

Everything else about the story thus far is a relatively standard Ace Combat like plot, with an allied nation on the brink of capitulation in a war that they can't win before the tides are turned single-handedly by one pilot who is able to output the power of an entire air force alone. That said, I do actually quite like the plot after the Second Calamity begins. We've never really had an Ace Combat game that happens _during_ the apocalypse before, and I'm here for it.

That said, the game does suffer from being a small indie game in many regards in terms of plot and story. There aren't cutscenes because that was simply unreasonable. There's only one story line going on while Ace Combat games almost always have two, which greatly helps to make the overall story that is being told more engaging, but also serve as a nice break for the player between sorties. In Project Wingman, they could only tell story through gameplay and dialogue, so you're basically just sent on a rapid series of missions. There's nothing they could have really done about this, but it is something that does affect the feel of the game, at least during the early missions. After that critical mission 15, I think the story kind of hits its stride.

Now, the end of mission 20 and into mission 21 are executed _almost_ perfectly. I think I may honestly like mission 21, Kings, better than the final mission of any other Ace Combat game, just because it was visually and narratively executed so well. As I said, the battle is ground to a halt and Federation forces are pulling out when the entire city just gets completely obliterated in nuclear hellfire. Everybody is wiped off the map in an instant, leaving only Monarch. Then, we fade out, and the next mission begins immediately, with the player flying towards the ruined center of Presidia, with Crimson 1 directly in front of them. He gives his monologue and then the music absolutely pops off as the final dogfight begins, one last battle to determine who is the best pilot.

The only way it could have be done any better is if the after mission screen had been removed between 20 and 21, if they had just done another fade to reposition the player and to reload their health and ammo, I think that would have been better. That said, there's no dialogue on that screen, and I don't think there's even any music. The UI glitches out with the signature Cordium interference affect that is used throughout the game after mission 15, so it's not like it takes away from the impact dramatically, but I would have still found some way to cut it out. This is by far my favorite part of the game, and I think it is very strong from a narrative and gameplay perspective, and is the best part of the game. I would argue that the transition from mission 20 to 21 then going into mission 21 is executed better than almost any endgame mission in any Ace Combat game, and I think that Crimson 1 is potentially one of, if not the best, final boss in the genre. Ace Combat final missions are always pretty epic, but they're never really hard. Chandelier is hard, but it's not quite as narratively and musically epic as others in the series. Megalith is epic, but is really easy. Unsung War is also very easy. Zero, from which Project Wingman is very heavily borrowing, is a standout for 'best final mission in Ace Combat,' and I think Project Wingman really studied that template and then took it to eleven.

Anyway, Crimson 1 turns into a bullet hell boss, firing off literally forty missiles at a time, railgun volleys in every direction, these float-y destructo ball thingies that turn red and then explode, sending railgun shots out in every direction, and through all of this the player is supposed to shoot him down. It's honestly my favorite fight in the genre so far. After Crimson 1 is shot down and dies in a big Cordium explosion, the screen fades to black, with the end of the game being something along the lines of "Mission complete, the contract will be paid."

Roll credits.

All in all, it's not a revolutionary story. There isn't an incredible amount of plot or fantastic writing, but it knew what it was and executed reasonably well, with the highlight really being the last two minutes of mission 20 and the entirety of the final mission.

Now one thing that it did do reasonable well was actually characterization, at least compared to most other Ace Combat games, arguably better than all other games. In Ace Combat 5, you have Blaze, the player character, and then the rest of the squad. They're just kind of there. They aren't really developed as characters and don't have a ton of real depth beyond a few personality traits and being around the player for a while.

In Project Wingman, there's a lot of allusions to the player's wingmen and their motivations for actually being mercenary pilots in the first place. Galaxy broaches the topic with Monarch once, as does someone else, asking why they're still fighting as mercenaries even though they would have gained and lost their fortunes so many times already. The only insight that we're ever given into this is that Dip's father was/is a politician in Presidia, and that Comic was a major in an air force, it's never really specified whether it was the Cascadian or Federation air force, and that "she got her wings clipped," so presumably grounded for some reason or dishonorably discharged.

There's some actual depth and complexity to the characters, not a ton given the limited story telling resources that they actually had to work with, and a lot of it is just hinting to prior shared experiences, but despite how they talk to each other, it's pretty clear that the three members of Hitman team are quite close, as shown during one of the missions where Comic is trash-talking Dip and Galaxy asks if they actually like each other, and if you have Prez with you she'll cut in and say something along the lines of "They do, trust me. Even as Monarch's backseater it's hard to break into their inner circle."

AWACS Galaxy doesn't have much in terms of character or development, but from his dialogue he's supposed to give off this sort of care-free attitude, but there are a number of lines or interactions that are seemingly designed to tell the player that, however much he may outwardly despise having to actually do work, he is really good at his job and what he does. While he does have a good amount of personality for the role that he plays in the game and the narrative, Galaxy doesn't have a tons of character, other than he seemingly want to replace Kaiser as the leader of Sicario if/when he kicks the bucket.

Kaiser, the leader of the Sicario Mercenary Corps, is a decently interesting side character. You would expect that the leader of a Mercenary group would just be in it for the money, but Kaiser is there for the stories and the history. He's decently charismatic, again for a side character, and there are hints at a backstory. It's alluded to a few times that there was some kind of large engagement between Federation and mercenary forces in a place called "Oceania," where some of the mercenary groups betrayed the others and they were almost wiped out by the Federation. We do see some development from him, as at the end of the game it's not about money, or the stories per say, but it's about getting revenge on the Federation for nearly wiping out Sicario with the Second Calamity. As he says, it becomes a contract that must be paid in blood.

I'm going to leave out some of the other minor characters, like Wild Boar, and Captain Chad Woodward of the Eminent Domain (who is an absolute chad) so we can move on to Crimson 1.

It's been like ten days since I wrote that last sentence so I don't remember what I've already written, and there's no way in Hell that I'm going back to read it. As (I think) I mentioned previously, Crimson 1 is setup to be this kind of golden child figure, the pride of the Federation Air Force who is considered to be among the top aces in the world, who slowly goes insane and develops an obsession with Monarch for being the only pilot who has been able to defy him, but also being the one who (presumably) killed Crimson 1's entire squad. Crimson 1 is responsible for the destruction of Presidia, and somehow has the audacity to blame it on Monarch, as though it's Monarch's fault that Crimson 1 decided to nuke the capitol of his own country. That's right, Crimson 1 is actually from Cascadia. He says he's very torn up about it but the fact that he did it twice indicates that he actually didn't have much trouble reducing his country to rubble. Crimson 1, before the last mission, only really appears a few times in the story, and each time he does, it's too late.

The first time is while the mercenaries are attacking Cordium refineries, where Crimson Squad only arrives as the mercenaries are pulling out and the facilities have already been more or less destroyed. The next time is during Cold War, when a massive aerial engagement has destroyed all Federation transports trying to flee across the Bering Strait as well as decimating Federation air power in the region. Crimson Squadron appears again, showing up with the last wave of Federation reinforcements, after the battle has been pretty much lost, and all they accomplish is losing five planes before Crimson 1 reluctantly gives the order to withdraw. There's a brief mention of the squadron being at port in Sawaiiki as the mercenary air force descends to do their best Perl Harbor impression, but they are mentioned only in a single voice line which is them retreating with the top secret PW-Mk.1 prototype. The final time that Crimson Squadron appears in the game is when the Cascadian Independence Force returns to Prospero after it's destroyed in order to stage their attack on Presidia, where they're all shot down and presumed KIA.

Then, during the Battle of Presidia when the ceasefire is called between Cascadia and the Federation, Crimson 1 returns in a probably stolen PW-Mk.1, where he uses Cordium-tipped warheads to level the city and cause another localized Calamity, much like what occurred at Prospero. Across the three real interactions, there's not a ton to Crimson 1. He's not built up as a particularly strong or impactful character, beyond that since he is the strongest ace in the enemy force, the player will eventually have to kill him, but his typical bad-guy rants in mission 18, the final mission in which they appear, are cut mostly short as Diplomat literally just starts screaming at him to shut up. It's pretty funny.

So when his voice rings out over the radio from above what little remains of the capital city of Cascadia, there's not a strong emotional reaction, not really. Nothing beyond 'Oh shit, he's back I guess.' But maybe that's the point. Monarch, and by extension the player, is a mercenary. They don't care about Cascadia's independence nor the Federation's dominance. So maybe it makes sense that Monarch doesn't really care about Crimson 1 either, he's just a pilot who may be an enemy or may not be. Depends on who's paying. Maybe this is the reason that Crimson 1, despite being what becomes the main antagonist of the story, isn't really built up as a character--because the player doesn't care. It doesn't matter who he is or what he believes, all that matters is that he must die.

Now let's talk about our feelings.

As far as setting goes, it's not bad. The setup for the world is very similar to the way that Strangereal is presented coming into Ace Combat 4, we have some kind of alternate human planet that just narrowly avoided a brush with the apocalypse and is now plunged into chaos as various nations struggle to rebuild and fight over whatever's left. In Project Wingman, that same idea is here, but we're coming into the universe post-apocalypse, where we see how humanity has survived and overcome that over a period of about 500 years. I think that the geopolitical situation as well as the scrambled and altered continents are overall reasonable, and the McGuffin that is Cordium is overall inoffensive and has logical uses and value associated with its usefulness. The lore is decently strong for an indie game, enough so that I would legitimately like to see a second entry in the series set in the same universe to learn more about the world and the countries involved. There are plenty of allusions to past events, most obviously the Calamity/the Long Cold, as well as some kind of conflict that happened in Oceania which saw a large scale engagement between different mercenary companies, some unspecified amount of time ago.

In terms of story, it takes very heavily after Ace Combat Zero. Ace Combat Zero, being arguably the best and strongest entry in the franchise, is a pretty good well of inspiration to draw from. This is most obviously seen in the fact that both games feature mercenaries as the protagonists, fighting in a struggle of independence between a small, relatively resource-rich nation and a global superpower. Both stories portray the mercenary forces employed by the freedom-seeking nation as being the key piece that is pivotal in winning the war against an overwhelming enemy, which is more heavy-handed in Project Wingman. It's remarked a few times that the mercenary forces are far better than anyone else in the Cascadian Air Force, which is why they're relying on them so heavily, even though the traditional ideology is that they have no loyalty to speak of. This is also seen in the traitorous Master Goose squadron, who switches 'sides' to join Frost after the Prospero Disaster because they were tired of being in the shadow of Sicario and Hitman team.

In Ace Combat Zero, Galm team, and the mercenaries in general feel more like freelancers, or individual pilots, whereas in PW it's mostly collections of almost 'private security' companies. The player is lead to believe that these mercenary/private security companies are very common in this post-apocalyptic world, but it's never really specified why, and there's not much indication given of global unrest outside of the Federation or some kind of persistent threat that would force governments to employ such companies. This is possible, as it seems like there could be a piracy problem in the Caribbean based on what happens in mission one, but this is never really explored. This is something I would have liked to see fleshed out a little bit more, because as far as I'm aware, there's not really a private security company currently operating that would be capable of performing the services Sicario provides, and mercenary fighter pilots aren't really a thing in the real world. It makes some sense in the context of Strangereal, where everybody is at war with everybody all the time, so you'll have some amount of pilots that retire/are discharged from various air forces and are able to find a jet and fight elsewhere, so it would make sense that the same is true in the version of Earth that we're presented in PW, but again there isn't really much indication of what goes on outside of the Federation and why all of these mercenaries are a thing.

Overall, I think the universe is about as strong as Strangereal would have been circa Ace Combat 4, and the themes of the story and what it explores were chosen and executed upon reasonably well, considering one person wrote it. I hope that there are more entries in the universe in the future to further expand on it, because I think it could be done and it could be good.

<br>

## Gameplay

An Ace Combat game is an Ace Combat game. When you play an Ace Combat game, you more or less know what you're getting. The same is true when you play a Call of Duty game. If you play Call of Duty expecting a story-driven RPG experience, well, you're a fuckin' moron. That's the thing with genres and series, something that IGN lamented in their review of Ace Combat 7--that at it's core there wasn't "innovation" and that it was fundamentally the same as previous Ace Combat games, and something I disagreed with them on.

Now, in case you haven't quite clued in on it yet, potentially because I just forgot to mention it already, I don't remember, Project Wingman is a spiritual successor to the Ace Combat series. I did mention that, actually. It was like the first sentence. The point here being that you shouldn't really expect a _ton_ of mission variety from your average Ace Combat game, because at the end of the day, that's kind of what you're here for. The same holds true for Project Wingman, but even with this understanding in place, I can't help but feel a little bit underwhelmed or perhaps disappointed by the diversity of the missions presented in the campaign--because there is basically none. In a standard Ace Combat game, you'll have your score-attack missions, and your missions where you destroy highlighted targets, where you can just ignore everything else and destroy only those to complete the mission or advance to the next phase. Those are the two main mechanics that feature in the game, and while PW _has_ score missions implemented in Conquest mode, they're absent from the campaign in favor of only using targets.

It sounds like these would basically be the same, and in practice they mostly are, but it does still make the game _feel_ slightly different, even if nothing has changed in reality. Another benefit of a larger development team is that, usually a few times a game, an Ace Combat game will have a level that has a slightly unique mechanic, like a stealth mission or using a special-special weapon to take pictures or designate targets for a strategic bomber or something else. Some games do it more or less than others, but Project Wingman is a pretty straight shot all the way through with an identical core gameplay loop.

Aside from that, the gameplay is basically a perfect recreation of Ace Combat. Compared to Ace Combat 7, the planes in Project Wingman are not as responsive until you unlock the PW-MK.1, which is ridiculously maneuverable, but the guns across all planes are significantly more powerful than those in Ace Combat 7, where the guns are so bad that you might as well not use them. If you're not quite sure, being able to replicate the gameplay of Ace Combat is a good thing in this case.

This isn't to say that it's completely identical, in fact, Project Wingman includes some of the most significant gameplay innovations of the genre since the genre was actually established. They're not huge, but they do make a difference. One of them is the inclusion of actual hardpoints, so you're now able to carry more than two types of weapons. Project Wingman allows you to carry up to four (three 'special' weapons if you're not counting the default missiles) in a way that I assume is somewhat realistic but with greatly unrealistic ammo counts. Certain planes have access to certain kinds of weaponry, and depending on which slot you select them in, options will be added or removed from other slots. I assume this is an actual thing where a military jet can use the same physical hardpoint for both an anti-air or anti-ground weapon, but obviously not both at the same time, which is what PW seems to have replicated. I'm not that big into planes though, so I don't know.

Being able to carry multiple different kinds of weaponry, or just to carry four of the same thing and squeeze of 12 MLAA's at the same time, makes a pretty huge difference in terms of gameplay. Now you can actually equip your aircraft for a multirole mission instead of being handicapped into picking one thing, or showing up to the anti-ground mission with anti-ground missiles and then having to dogfight the enemy ace in an A-10, like will happen in Ace Combat games, particularly in Ace Combat 7. It's not a perfect system, because the planes that I purchased throughout my campaign playtime had a relatively limited selection of weapons. Usually it was fine, but I swear to God there is a single plane in this game that has anti-ship missiles as an option. Another step forward that Project Wingman takes when Ace Combat 7 failed to is in the scale of the battles. This is something that was actually done relatively well in Ace Combat 6, which features by far the most expansive battles of the series, divided up into smaller operations which each have a specific unit assigned to them. Project Wingman doesn't have operations, but it kind of smacks Ace Combat 7 around in terms of the number of units on screen at any given time.

Overall, the gameplay is good. It's what Ace Combat 7 probably should have been, and is the first entry in the whatever genre this is supposed to be that actually feels like it could be considered "modern" despite being an indie game developed by one person.

Now, there are some bugs with this. At release, there were issues with saturation on certain levels making them too bright, dark, or orange to actually see anything useful, as well as enemies flying out of bounds, spawning under geometry of the map, or other small issues. Those have been mostly resolved, with some minor visual glitches or gameplay bugs still kicking around somewhere.

In terms of visuals, the game looks adequate. It's not quite as visually refined as something like an Ace Combat 7, but it has significantly more geometry than AC7 does, relying less on satellite imagery on the ground to make it look like there's something below you. That sounds really shitty, but for the most part, even in AC7, you won't notice it. Generally speaking, the places where this technique is used in Project Wingman look worse, but Project Wingman did a much better job with cities, where Presidia and Prospero look and feel much more like an actual large city than any city we've yet seen in an Ace Combat game, even Ace Combat 7. There are a number of visually distinct and interesting locations, along with a lot of orange and red hues from the Second Calamity, and some of the

The plane textures are overall fine, with decent amounts of detail in the models and textures. I believe each plane has a fully modeled interior that's probably at least somewhat accurate to the actual cockpit of their respective planes, but I don't play in VR mode or in cockpit view. Oh, by the way, this game has full VR support if you're into that sort of thing.

Project Wingman perfectly replicates the Ace Combat formula, with a few choice innovations and some abilities afforded to it by targeting PC rather than consoles to be the game that Ace Combat 7 ultimately should have been.

<br>

# Conquest

While Ace Combat 7 includes a campaign mode and multiplayer, Project Wingman instead opted for an additional mode called "Conquest". Conquest mode is basically a rogue-lite, where players will start with an enemy controlled map divided into sectors, where each sector contains one of a few different operations to complete to gain control of the sector, which awards some credits to spend on wingman or Cordium engines which, combined with credits, can be used to purchase friendly airships to support them. There's an alert level which determines the difficulty and number of enemy squadrons, with a global difficulty setting that is selected when a 'run' is begun. At the end of a run, the player earns prestige, which is used to purchase planes, which are retained after a run ends.

Some of the different operations a sector might contain are score attack, anti-air defense suppression, transport hunt, and some others. After the objective is completed, an enemy ace squadron will spawn, and after they're all destroyed the sector will be cleared and will become controlled by the player, thus conquest mode.

Depending on the alert level, more enemy planes serving as trash mobs will spawn in around the player at any given time, mostly just serving to be annoying and get in the way. The player's alert level increases naturally over time in missions, as well as with score. Higher alert levels make each successive territory slightly harder, and the number of conquered territories will also increase the difficulty. Therefore, one strategy to try and beat the conquest mode is to only focus on the targets required to complete the objective without destroying any other targets in order to keep the alert level as low as possible. This helps a little bit, but it will result in a slightly poorer run, where the player will have less money to purchase wingmen as a result of their lower score in each territory.

The conquest mode is a relatively basic, simple, and straightforward rouge-lite experience, but it's great. This is the first time we've really seen something like this in the genre, and it's absolutely fantastic for wanting to play the game but without playing the same campaign missions over and over again. There's no story to the conquest mode, it's just gameplay. Overall, it's far better than the extremely limited multiplayer content that Ace Combat 7 included as it provides a quick and painless way to slaughter your way through a bunch of enemy planes.

It can be ridiculously hard though, especially on Hard or Mercenary with a high alert level, where there are so many enemy units on the map at one time chasing you that you have to resort to hit and run on critical targets only, all while praying that your computer can manage an appreciable frame rate. I would love to see Project Aces try and do something like Conquest mode, in fact, they sort of already did with Ace Combat Infinity. It involved 4v4 PvP/PvE missions that were really good in terms of gameplay, but really bad in terms of basically everything else, including the monetization model. A co-op conquest mode (not that I would ever actually play that) or a mode that has the benefit of a much larger studio creating it could be incredible.

Anyway, Conquest mode is pretty good and can be quite difficult.

<br>

# Music

I didn't have particularly high expectations for the music, to be honest. The soundtrack was created by one person, which rounds out of three man development team: one developer, one writer/community manager/chicken head fuckstick, one composer.

- [Calamity](https://youtu.be/LLZH4z6OdsU)
- [Peacekeeper I](https://youtu.be/YoRvc2wFkso)
- [Eminent Domain](https://youtu.be/vbYp2mZbLVI)
- [Clear Skies](https://youtu.be/cDOSghFCDuA)
- [Danger Bound](https://youtu.be/Y4mGz-A9Ou0)
- [Showdown](https://youtu.be/xgcap-5IBsY)
- [Fire and Dust](https://youtu.be/zSHV_sl8Gz8)
- [Consequence of Power](https://youtu.be/24s__TuWmS0)
- [Peacekeeper II](https://youtu.be/7ux7gVqKDnQ)

## [Kings](https://youtu.be/bh85GHBe6xY)

## [Coronation](https://youtu.be/fAY4nUIIJp0)

<br>

Yeah the music fucks.

My favorite here probably being Kings or Coronation, both are very good for different reasons. The opening 30 seconds of Kings is nut-worthy and it hits different at the beginning of the final mission when you fly over a post-apocalyptic hellscape straight towards your final enemy. Coronation is a very different song to Kings, and lands especially well because it starts playing after Kings fades out, after you've already 'beaten' Crimson 1, the health bar and all the UI on the screen disappears as he defies death to continue struggling on in vain. As a high temp, intense battle rages amongst the clouds and the lightning, a slow, melancholy cello rings out. It's incredible, and a kind of track that we don't really ever see in this genre.

<br>

# Conclusion

## Monarch, when you hear the thunder... When the storm comes for you... Remember me.

I don't know how the fuck these things got so long. I start them up again and suddenly everything is 8,000 words minimum. I need an editor.

Project Wingman is one of those games that I have to time very specifically, because after a finish a play-through of the campaign, I don't really know what to do. The story isn't Earth shattering, but it knew and understood what it was and used what it had to the fullest of its potential, presenting a reasonably memorable story and surprisingly excellent music and sets to become the game that Ace Combat 7 ultimately probably should have been but with a team of only three people and a budget of maybe $200,000. Project Wingman is currently the best that the flight-arcade-action games genre has to offer on PC, and I hope we see another one eventually. It's a bit rough around the edges sometimes, and there are some bugs, but despite that, it manages to be so much more than I believed it could possibly be.

**Shadow Reviews Project Wingman: 9.25/10**
